Am I gonna be like an 85year-old lady
sitting on a porch and like doing the
bend and snap on Instagram? God, I hope
not.
>> I'm Lulu Garcia Navaro and this week on
The Interview, I'm in Nashville and I'm
interviewing Reese Witherspoon.
Witherspoon got her start in Hollywood
when she was only 14 years old. Since
then, she's been in all these iconic
roles, Legally Blonde.
>> I object.
>> Election. You won't just be voting for
me, you'll be voting for yourself.
>> Cruel Intentions and Walk the Line,
which she won an Oscar for. Now she's
back with co-star Jennifer Aniston in
season 4 of The Morning Show.
>> I have to do this whether you like it or
not,
>> which just premiered on Apple TV Plus.
But Witherspoon is also a power player
in Hollywood behind the scenes. Her
company, Hello Sunshine, has been
involved in producing The Morning Show,
Big Little Eyes, and other hits. And of
course, she has her book club, which is
a massive success. So, I wanted to talk
to her not only about her acting career,
but also about the business of
Hollywood. Here's my conversation with
Reese Witherspoon.
[Music]
I want to start um by asking you about
your most recent projects. you um have
just co-authored a thriller.
>> Yeah.
>> Um and I've seen you talk about
collaboration before.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh there was an interview that you gave
where you said, you know, if you don't
want to collaborate, if you're an actor,
then you should go write a book. But you
actually wrote a book in collaboration
with someone. So So talk me through
that.
>> Yes, you're right.
>> Oh gosh. Okay. Well, this idea came from
so many different places. My parents are
both in the medical field and I grew up
as a military brat. My dad was stationed
in Germany when I was a little girl and
so I first five years of my life I grew
up on an army base um air force base
actually.
>> Do you remember that?
>> Yeah, I do. I went to German school and
it was a a great upbringing um in terms
of exposure to other languages and other
cultures but also to all these medical
um service people like that were working
in the hospitals. My mother was a nurse,
my dad was a doctor. So I always thought
well
why are there not more stories about
surgeons?
>> We should say at this point the main
character is a plastic surgeon
>> um who reconstructive surgeon.
>> Reconstructive surgeon.
>> She's a military trained doctor. She's
sort of down on her luck. She's lost her
medical license. Her husband has, you
know, kind of disappeared
>> and she gets pulled into this world
where she ends up uh with oligarchs and
in
>> uh very shady.
Yeah. The CIA gets involved. Um and
there's this whole hidden world. So,
I this this idea kind of came up through
that thinking about my parents and then
I started thinking, well, who would I
want to write it? Well, I've got to have
a a thriller co-author with me because
I'm too invested here to just give this
idea away. So, I had met Harlland 9
years ago at a conference and I called
him and I said, "I have an idea for a
thriller." And I was so nervous um
because I have such high regard for
authors and their process and how
difficult it is to create characters and
story. And I went through a whole litany
of insecurities.
>> But part of my
the way I process things is I'm even if
there's risk there, I kind of jump into
the risk. Um and sometimes I fail, but
I'd rather take the risk. So I was like,
"Okay, Reys, you've read more books. You
know how to plot a movie. So take your
knowledge of building character and
understanding um narrative structure and
just keep imparting it. I think the
through thread between this character in
your book and The Morning Show is that
they are both sort of helmed by very
complicated women because uh The Morning
Show is now back for its fourth season
and the women are finally in charge now
at UBN. I mean, one of the themes
definitely this season um is that
putting women at the top doesn't
necessarily solve everyone's problems.
as someone who sort of prides themsself
in working with women,
>> um, is that something that resonated
from your own experience? This idea that
somehow just putting women in charge
isn't going to be the panacea that maybe
everyone thinks it's going to be.
>> Well, I've never advocated for a
matriarchy. I've always thought the
world needs gender balance. We've gotten
out of balance. Things swing too far one
way or the other. Um, and I don't think
that
I don't think that
trying to portray a
I don't know what I'm trying to say.
Every time I have the chance to talk
about culture inside of Hello Sunshine,
I never want to create a monoculture,
you know,
>> and I'm also raising two boys,
>> right? Um, it's really important that we
include men in these conversations and
young men. And I do think a lot of
language
and and a lot of media during from 2017
to 2020 did not include their
consciousness, you know, and and ask
them in and help them feel like they
belonged in the emergence of the power
of women. And so I think we're seeing
them look for other sources of
empowerment. Um, and maybe those are
empty sources. Maybe they don't have um
maybe they aren't substantive, but
they're speaking the right language to
young men. So, I think we have to invite
um an idea of gender balance. That's
what feels like what's right in the
world to me. I think I pushed really
hard to get women in seats of power um
all around me because they weren't
getting the opportunities at all.
>> And I was trying to show it more. women
in charge, women as directors, women as
screenwriters, women as the author of
that best-selling book. So, yeah, it's
interesting that we're exploring on
morning show the dynamics of having all
these women in charge and that that
isn't always
the final answer. One of the things
though when I was looking at the show is
this question of do women deal with
power differently? And it made me wonder
about as someone who was in charge of
her own company, do you think that there
is a different way in which women
actually exercise power or or do you
think that's just like a myth? No, I do
think it's different. I have a very um
troubled relationship with the word
power because it's got so much uh weight
on it and
>> explain what do you mean? Um, it doesn't
feel like something I wanted to achieve
or grab at or grasp for. It feels like
um it could corrupt you,
you know, corrode you from the inside,
your desire for power in some sort of
Lord of the Rings way like greed and
power. Um, no. I love leadership and
learning to be a good leader
>> is something I've had to do over the
past eight years cuz I did not I'm not
the person to raise my hand and say,
"Oh, I want to be in charge. It feels
like it would be my personality." It's
not.
>> What have you learned about leadership?
>> That I got to step up and do it.
>> Mhm.
You know, I had a really pivotal
conversation in my life with Shondaanda
Rimes and we were sitting in a in a
forum with a lot of women and it was in
2017 and it was about, you know, helping
people in our business come forward with
their stories of sexual harassment and
abuse in the workplace. And I said, "If
we could just get people to show up at
this one event, then that would be
great." And so, somebody's going to have
to get them there. And she goes, "You're
going to do it."
And I said, "What?" She goes, she patted
my leg and she goes, "You're going to do
it. They're going to listen to you. And
when you tell them to show up on
Thursday at 5:00 p.m. at your office,
they're going to come because you're the
leader and you don't know it." And that
was a big moment for me cuz it it was
scary, too. It's a responsibility that
you don't always want to put that hat
on. But I was like, "Okay." I kind of
thought in my mind, okay, if I don't do
this, who's going to do it?
>> That story also says something to me
about mentorship and the need for
someone to look at you,
>> oh my god,
>> and see that.
>> I needed her to tell me that cuz I would
not have seen it. I do lack some
self-awareness.
So, the fact that she said it to me made
it true in my mind.
>> I wanted to go back a little bit to your
history and your career.
Where did you sort of first start to get
in front of an audience and and enjoy
that? What was that? What was that
moment?
>> Um, well, I did a commercial for my
neighbor down the street when I was
seven. And then I don't know, I went up
to my mom and I said, "I want to do
acting classes when I was seven." So,
she took me, she couldn't find any
acting classes for kids, so she enrolled
me in Belmont College had a nighttime
acting class for students. And so I was
going with, you know, 20 year olds to
acting for television and commercials.
And then I didn't do much for until I
was about 12. Another girl had told me
at school, she goes, "Oh, I'm doing
these acting classes every Saturday
morning." And I said, "Oh, okay. Well,
I'm going to ask my mom if I can go." So
I went home, told my mom, and she was
like, "Sure." So every Saturday for
probably 3 years, I was dropped off for
3 hours of acting training.
um every Saturday morning and you loved
it. I loved it.
>> We'd act. They taught us how to do our
hair and makeup. It was Nashville, so we
had to learn how to put on um you know,
our fake eyelashes. And I was 12.
Um but also they taught professionalism,
like how do you show up? How do you go
for an audition? How do you do a job
interview? Um, and I it was the only
professional training I've ever had as
an actor, but it was very good and very
comprehensive because I got a job when I
was 14 starring in a movie.
>> Yeah. Um, you went to an open casting
call for the man uh in the moon.
>> Yeah. Right over like three blocks away
in the back of a bar.
>> They're holding in the back of a bar.
>> In the back of a bar in Nashville.
>> Yeah. My dad drove me down, let me get
out and stand in line. It was 1990 and I
stood in line waiting because it it was
an ad in the paper said, "Do you want to
be in a movie?" And there was a a woman
at the acting school had said, "Hey,
they're casting for this movie. You
should go stand in line." So, I did. And
it turned out they were looking for a
14-year-old southern girl. So, right
place, right time.
>> At around 18, you then put your acting
career on pause and you go to college
for a year. And this is actually
something that I wanted to understand a
little bit about because you end up
going to Stanford. Why did you end up
stopping what was a promising acting
career and decide I need to go to
college?
>> Well, my parents didn't think I was
going to become an actor and they so
they really encouraged me to go to
college. They wouldn't let me work
during the school year either. I was
only allowed to work on movies in the
summers um while I was in high school.
They wanted me to go to a traditional
high school and have a normal high
school experience because I got calls
after the first movie I did. I got
offers to be on broadcast television
shows and I turned them down. And I'm
really glad my parents held the line
with that because
all those
things I learned about being a kid were
just formed by growing up in Nashville
and um going to prom and feeling awkward
in the school cafeteria. But then they
were they wanted me to go to college and
applied only to schools in California.
And back then we didn't go on college
tours or I didn't. So, there was this
giant thick book and they had little
thumbnail prints of colleges and there
was a picture of Stanford and I was
like, I guess I'll go there. It's in
California. Um, I think I was the only
person from Tennessee in my entire
freshman class. I always say I think I
got on on geographic diversity.
What did you think you were going to
study? Like what did you want to
>> Literature? I loved reading. I just read
and read and I wanted to literature.
>> You only stayed for a year. How come?
>> Um, well, I couldn't afford it. I didn't
have any money to go to college. My
grandparents had given me $8,000, which
was so generous. Um, but it didn't cover
my tuition. I remember it was $33,000
with room and board.
>> Seems like a bargain now.
>> I know. Um, but I couldn't afford it.
So, I had to figure out how I'd get an
acting job to pay for it. So, I left to
go get an acting job. I got one. Um, and
I did I ended up doing three movies in a
row. Pleasantville, Election, and Cruel
Intentions. And then by the time I had
finished those three films,
it had been a year and a half.
>> And also, you were legit famous.
>> Well, I wouldn't say I was really famous
until I did Legally Blonde,
>> but these those three movies were, you
know, big movies. And you just decided
at that point like
the maybe the college experience wasn't
for you. Did you Did
>> No, I thought I was going back. I fully
thought I was going back for probably
five, six years.
>> I wanted to ask you about a more
difficult moment. I saw you in Opra in
2018 talk about leaving an abusive
relationship where you were when you
were very young.
>> And you said you had no self-esteem back
then and that leaving the relationship
sort of changed you on a cellular level.
The fact that you discovered that you
were someone who could leave a situation
like that. Mhm.
>> And looking at sort of who you were
working with back then and and how you
were working, I wondering if you could
just talk me through what that lack of
confidence felt like because I guess
looking at it, it didn't seem obvious.
Well, I think I was very good at being
um
a professional and showing up and doing
the right thing, but I
>> I wasn't emotionally mature when I was
young and you get in relationships that
don't work for you. And
>> um and sometimes you don't even see the
dynamics that are happening. So, when I
got out of that,
it took me a while to reconstitute
myself. My spirit had been diminished
because I thought all those awful things
that person said about me were true
and I had to rewire my brain. But I was
really insecure because
I've talked to
a lot of people who've been in abusive
relationships and they can't see it, you
know, and I couldn't I couldn't see it.
um
took me a long time to be this woman
that I am now.
>> When you say you had to reconstitute
yourself,
what does that look like when you're
also having to sort of be a person out
in the world?
>> It's very hard to be a public figure.
So, I have a lot of compassion for
people who live public lives and
maintain privacy. It's nearly impossible
at this point. Um everybody
dehumanizing you in a certain way, like
um taking pictures of you like you're an
animal in the zoo instead of a person
with their children or having a private
moment. Um
yeah, it it was hard. It was really
hard.
>> Um
and being a mom being a mom and wanting
to protect young people is hard, too,
you know.
>> Yeah. I I wanted to actually come to you
know what happened after this because
you end up in these big films that had a
lot of initial success. Uh you just
mentioned them election uh cruel
intentions and uh you end up of course
getting married and having children. I
mean uh Ryan Philippy of course was your
husband back then. Um you had children.
Great. I had to look it up.
Um,
what was it about having kids? Because
it was unusual, I think, in Hollywood to
have kids, you know, in your early 20s.
>> Yeah. you think um
there's parts of it that are private and
personal that I don't really want to
talk about, but I will talk about
um
having kids at a young age.
There was so much I didn't know and
maybe that naive day was good because
it's like, oh well, I'll just do that
and have a career. And um I did have a
few people say to me, this is going to
be really hard on your career. And my
mother was a pediatric nurse and she
said, "I'm going to help you."
>> Um, but that was hard cuz she lived in
Nashville and I lived in Los Angeles.
So, um, I went through everything that
new moms go through where sleepless
nights and long days, uh,
endless bottle feedings and
breastfeeding and trying to learn lines
and go to do auditions, but organized
child care and um, but when I had my
daughter, I didn't have nannies or help
or anything. I had somebody would come
watch her three days uh three hours
twice a week. It was really hard. There
were roles I couldn't take. I wasn't
just in service of my career. I had to
sort of have this immediate balance of
family and career.
>> Being a mom and being a working actress.
That's why it was also scary when
Legally Blonde became such a big hit.
I wasn't going to beg for parts. parts
were coming to me and that almost made
it scarier because
I wasn't picking and choosing what I
would reach and strive for. It was like
um it would it was more like what will I
not do? And so I had to put boundaries
in at a very young age. It was really
hard. But I figured it out. I figured it
out. I kept on thinking about that while
I was sort of reflecting on this moment
for you that, you know, you were this at
the height of your success with Legally
Blonde and this string of successes and
yet you were married and had kids and
all your actress peers that was not
their reality. Was it difficult to be in
a different part of life um than perhaps
your peers were?
>> Right. Yeah, that's true. And you know
what the most ironic part was? I was
always being told by different people in
the industry, don't play a mom. It'll
make you seem old. And I was like, but I
am a mom.
Like, but
I do think we've lost a lot of
storytelling around mothers because
there was so much about our business
that it desexualized you. So, you
couldn't be a movie star if you played a
mom. And thank goodness that's sort of
going by the wayside. But that was a big
part of when I was in my 20s and 30s.
Don't play a mom. No men will desire you
or nobody will want to go see that movie
because nobody wants to see a movie
about a mom.
>> Were there people that you could turn to
to kind of help you with that balance
that you were trying to achieve? Well, I
think as I got a little bit older,
Jennifer Aniston was really helpful for
me um navigating personal life and
tabloid curiosity and also um
shutting out all the noise.
>> She you played her sister obviously in
Friends and you're in the
>> in the morning show with her now.
>> Yeah, we played Sisters on Friends and
her and Courtney. I remember I brought
my baby Ava. Ava was only three or
months old when I was on Friends in
1999. And I remember Courtney and Jen
coming to my dressing room door and
knocking on the door and going, "We
heard you have a baby." I was like, "I
do. I have a baby." They're like, "Can
we see it?" I was like, "Yes, she's
right there." And they're like, "Oh my
god, this is so cool." And um I just
remember them being so
kind about it. And I that kindness
opened a door for me to ask Jennifer a
lot of questions when I went through
breakups or really public um divorce.
And she was just really always very
generous with advice and care. What
advice was that? What I mean what what
are the lessons of of having to
protect yourself essentially?
>> Oh my god, there's just hundreds of
them. Well, actually Jennifer Garner and
I too are very close and we would talk a
lot about navigating public interest in
our kids um and how we could protect
them from
pictures and paparazzi and because it
they would be everywhere all over the
schools and all over the cars. There was
always this surprise, somebody jumping
out of the bushes or I remember at
church once in LA, um, a guy jumping on
the hood of the car and three on each
side, three people pushing against the
window, banging on the door when my kids
were little after I got a divorce and
chasing us like like like it was a
police chase down the freeways. It was
terrifying and and the fact that we
survived that. But I do think I I think
it was really hard on my kids. It was
really hard. Anxiety producing and I
really I regret living in LA during that
time.
>> You think too it was too hard on the
kids. Yeah. And I know it feels like
they're just taking pictures, but it
would be like 25 people on the side of
the soccer field photographing
me and Ryan to see if we got along or we
didn't get along. And it was and it was
there was a little boy and a little girl
there. Yeah. I watched them chase
Britney Spears and she had two little
children and I had two little children
and I felt like there was this really
unfair portrayal of her as a bad girl
and but I was a good girl and
she was a mother, a young mother trying
to figure it out away from home being
chased like an animal. And what that
kicks up inside your body and what it
does for you is very traumatic. And it
just I just have incredible compassion
for people that went through that time
period and were portrayed a certain way
by the media because of if they went to
a nightclub versus they went to the
playground. You know, it was a very um
punishing time for women
who were in the spotlight.
>> How did you explain that to your kids?
And did you see like the effects of that
for them?
>> Yes, my kids had anxiety.
>> Wow. really bad anxiety and it was all
external. It was you you can only shield
them from so much. But when they can go
to the playgrounds and on the
schoolyard,
it's it feels like the world is chaos
and there are no rules.
>> Um and there was like this invisible
barrier. They would never touch your
body, but they would scream. They would
yell things at the kids about their dad
or me that were wildly inappropriate
>> at the children.
>> Yes. It's people these videos exist
>> and then they would only show the one
part where I was screaming back at them
going get get back in your cars. Leave
us alone. I'm not trying to garner
sympathy. It was my life. I just I
didn't know that that was what would
come with wanting to be a an actor or
storyteller at that level. That's why
when social media emerged,
Jennifer and I got on the phone, we're
like, "Oh my god, we can create our own
storytelling. We can decide when people
have pictures of our kids. Sign me up."
You felt like this was a way for you to
decide how much and when and in what way
>> you were going to open the door.
>> Yeah. It devalued that market. There was
no longer a market to see pictures of my
children cuz they were people were
getting it for free. and and also it had
great um
use. I mean what I felt like oh I
immediately saw this opportunity to
build community online.
It only took me a couple of years and I
ideated around this with Sarah Harden
the CEO of Hello Sunshine. She came on
and I said, you know, how do we take the
book club
out of your grandma's living room and
into the digital world and create a
community that's farreaching and global
that the pe people come up to the me
about two things legally blonde? Of
course you think that, right? And they
like to say, "What? Like it's hard and
can I show you the bend and snap or can
you do the bend and snap?"
>> They actually ask you to do the bend and
snap.
>> Sometimes I do the bend and snap. If you
see me do the bend and snap, you're very
lucky because I think I've only done it
a handful of times.
>> I was about to say, I'm not going to ask
you.
>> Am I going to be like an 85year-old lady
sitting on a porch and like doing the
bend and snap on Instagram? God, I hope
not.
>> There are worse things in the world. If
you can still do the bend and snap at
80, I think actually you're in a good
place.
>> I might come out with the bend and snap
workout. It could be a whole new
business model. No, that people come up
to me and ask me about Legally Blonde,
which is cool. And then the other thing
is the book club. What's so interesting
about you becoming um the businesswoman
that you are today is that preceding
that moment, you were kind of in a
professionally period. You'd won an
Oscar.
>> You had, you know, kind of
>> gone through all the heights that you
can in a career,
>> but you sort of stopped for a little
bit. Um, and I wonder what that fow
period where you weren't
creatively getting to do the things that
you wanted to do, what that was like for
you. What did you learn about yourself
in that period?
>> Well, I learned that in order to be
successful in any business, you have to
understand every aspect of it. And it
forced me to get more macro about it,
back up and understand the business
better and why they're not making
more movies that I want to be in or more
movies that I would let my daughter
watch. Um, and so it forced me to get
analytical and it started as a a company
called Pacific Standard. And that came
from 2 years of just ideulating and
going, there's a missing lane here of
developing film that has a woman at the
center of it. And then I was like, okay,
what if it's books, too? Because I was
posting my favorite books on Instagram.
And then the two came together where it
was like, "Oh, okay. I should option
some books to make them into movies."
And then it just grew cuz Instagram came
around and I was like, "Oh, let's build
an online community." And then the I
think the the part of my brain that gets
really turned on is how do you connect
community, the IP and all the social
relationships. So I had all these
friendships from working for 20 years in
the movie business with other actors and
actresses and filmmakers and how I put
that to work. And so when those three
things started coming together as media
was changing, I was there to meet the
moment. I already had
IP and I had options and I had books and
I had filmmakers. I had it ready to go
for when streaming emerged and they
needed content. I had the content to
provide.
It also took that shiny part of fame
that was so difficult to deal with and I
got to pivot that light onto people who
I felt like were very deserving and I
could stand next to them and promote
their book and it was like a this is
such a great use of fame. I mean it
brings me back to something you said
earlier which was that first moment when
someone said to you are a leader you can
lead that this seemed like a natural
evolution to what you had kind of been
working on.
>> Yeah. And I had to get really frustrated
and angry in my existing career to hit
the wall to want to take on a new aspect
or a new it's an entirely different
career.
>> It's two totally different careers
>> and I I jostle between the two of them
at all times being a creator and being a
person who understands the economics of
creating. But the part about
understanding um the shifting economics
of the entertainment industry, that's
fun for me now. I
>> fun.
>> It is. It actually is. I find it really
fun. I like to forecast about it. I'm
not always right, but I listen to other
people's forecasting. I watch it. I
write people who I think have a really
good take on our business. Um and I've
been inside it since I was 14 years old.
I have a very cleareyed opinion of it.
I'm not star right about any of it. And
I think I you have to be pragmatic when
you have a company like mine because
time is your biggest asset. You can't
waste time on things you can't get made.
>> So you have to be very very thoughtful
about what projects you take on, what
books we option. And then you have to
throw all your energy at it. So if it
doesn't work at any at any point, you
have to be very comfortable with cutting
bait and moving on.
>> I mean, you're starting a business
project focused on Gen Z women. Um, your
kids are Gen Z.
>> When you're looking and you're
forecasting, what are you seeing? I
mean, I I I would love to know.
>> Well, this is part of the great thing
about being a young mom is my kids tell
me everything that's going on. And so
that helps me forecast what's happening
in the media world cuz they tell me
first. I noticed my kids weren't going
to the movies. I had teenage kids. I
went to the movies every Friday and
Saturday night. Kids don't go to the
movies. Usually people are seeing one
movie a year in the theaters with their
kids.
>> So you got to go where the audience is,
not lament the fact that they didn't
show up or have what I call old school
itis, which is like, well, in my day,
well, it just doesn't work that way. You
got to go to where the audience is. But
we're, you know, attention spans are
shifting. They just are. The way we make
movies is going to change radically in
the next two years to three years
>> because of AI.
>> Everybody knows it.
>> It's like you just have to understand
how it's going to happen because we
still have to layer our consciousness on
top of it and use it as tools because
otherwise it's just a runaway train
>> and it can't make you laugh. AI has
never made me laugh. Not once.
>> No. I did a whole AI thing with Will
Frell when we were standing on set if
you're invited and our director uh Nick
Stler put in come up with movie ideas
for Will Ferrell and Reese Witherspoon
and romantic comedy and it spit out like
and three of them were actually not too
bad. Will came up with 10 other ones
that were so much better. M
you know talking about the industry um
there's this moment that you talked
about um after Big Little Lies comes out
on HBO 2017 which you start in it was
this huge hit you know in terms of
awards in terms of just public reaction
but you said that the project barely
broke even at the time
>> for my company
>> for your company my producing
>> fees that's what I mean and I just want
to understand like what are the
mechanics of that when we're looking at
the industry and where it's at and what
it takes to make quality work.
>> Mhm.
>> Why didn't that work out and what did
you learn from that?
>> Well, I had fun I had set up my company
fundamentally in a way that it could
never be profitable because I was just
working off producing fees.
>> It's a little it's too inside baseball
and a little bit boring, but
>> I don't know. I'm interested. I I I had
set up the company and had so much
success with Gone Girl, Wild, Big Little
Lies, and that was a big financial
success for HBO,
>> right?
>> But it wasn't for my production company
because I was trying to keep five women
employed with great health insurance in,
you know, an office building and we
didn't know where our next producing job
was going to come from. I was like, this
isn't a sustainable business model. I
need I need more predictable revenue.
And that's when I got business partners
backed up and built a business plan
>> and I raised capital from AT&T and
Lorine Pal jobs um through Emerson
Collective and we only raised one series
A um and then we sold in 2021. Um that
was a big payday. You were acquired by
Candle Media for almost a billion
dollars.
Uh what was that like that day?
>> Very emotional.
Very emotional. And it was a big deal
for me because I had really held out
during those negotiations with different
um different entities that wanted to buy
the company. And I had waited for the
best um valuation of the company because
so many women had equity in the company.
and was really important to me that
these women who a lot of them gave up
corporate jobs to follow my dreams and
my vision and help me execute and they
all got paid. Um, and that was a big
deal for me cuz I also thought I got to
be really careful who this sells to and
what the value is because it's putting a
value on women's storytelling and what
are we saying to the world? I was like,
and I also thought I met my grandmother
who loved stories and had
um she was she went to Vanderbilt
University and had a degree um a
teaching degree and she just couldn't
really do anything with it. And I could
tell she was a frustrated intellectual
>> and that she didn't want to teach first
grade. She loved first grade, but she
wanted to write books and she wanted to
travel the world. She was a storyteller
and she didn't get to do that and so I
thought I'm living my grandmother's
dream.
>> What did you do to celebrate?
>> Um I remember
getting on it was co so we were all in
lockdown and I get on a Zoom with
everybody in Hell of Sunshine. I thought
really long about what song I would play
before we went on and told everybody and
I played Here Comes the Sun by the
Beatles. It makes me want to cry
>> because it was like a hopeful moment
that people actually cared about women's
stories.
Like we weren't in the margins anymore.
We were the main story.
And it it made me think, okay, if I can
do this, I want to make sure other women
can do it who are coming up after me.
Cuz if I fail here, this is going to
tell every little girl who has a dream
of being a producer or director that
she's not going to make it. So, I
pressured myself a lot, but it was a
great day. It was a great day.
>> I think one of the other things that it
it did is show that
there's a market for it, right? That you
can make these kinds of stories and they
can make money cuz I guess no one's
really in, you know, not everyone's in
into it just for, you know, the higher
purpose.
No, it's a business. It's the movie
business. It has to make money. It has
to justify the cost. I understand that.
And so when I was able to
blend my ideology with that business
model and it became successful,
I felt like, wow, I think I've aligned
for what I was meant to do here in this
lifetime. the CEO of Candle Media uh
recently did an interview with Semaphore
>> and he said that you've been a great
partner, but he also said that Hello
Sunshine quote wasn't worth what we
paid.
>> How does that sit with you?
>> Well,
I think it's shortsighted being honest.
He and I have talked about it. I'm all
about full cander and discussions. Um,
I think the world is shifting and just
because one aspect of our company didn't
hit the numbers a certain year that he
anybody thought it was going to hit.
That doesn't mean it's not valuable. And
I think gosh try don't try to bury
something that's a seed. It's going to
grow and grow and grow because it's a
it's a wonderful brand and it stands for
something. it means something.
>> I mean, I do think it speaks to the sort
of changing media landscape because in
that interview, he talks about how the
goal now uh with quote traditional
media, so I guess he's talking about a
TV show is to quote retell and to extend
those stories on social media. Um and he
added that the goal hadn't worked out as
well as he expected. I did not
understand what he meant. And maybe
that's and maybe that's me, but I um
>> Yeah, we can ask him. You want to call
him?
>> Yeah, we should. But do you understand
what he means? I mean, can you explain
what what the goal is? Now,
>> I can't explain what he was trying to
say cuz I don't know, right? I don't
live inside his head. But what I think
you got to look at more macro is the
predictable revenue structures. So we
have a very successful conference every
year that is all about leading with
experts in different areas of um women's
interests you know from health and
wellness to entrepreneurship to banking
um to storytelling
that's been really successful. So we
have live events, we have brand
partnerships, we have the book club and
then we have scripted and then we have
unscripted. Um, so there's so many
different components. If one component
isn't working, you don't just say the
whole thing isn't working. Like
>> you pivot. You you pivot your business
model. And we're looking at all of that
now, right? And going, how can we grow
more to where the audience is, but it's
shifting, you know, and that's we're
lucky enough to be able to shift, right?
We're not some big behemoth media
company.
we can um we can have a new business
plan and be able to move and shape and
grow with culture.
On the interview, we talked to our guest
twice. So, a few days after our first
interview, I talked to Reese again.
Here's our second conversation.
[Music]
Hi, nice to see you. Hi, Lulu.
Uh, I think I catch you still in
Nashville.
>> I'm still in Nashville. Yes.
>> We covered so much ground in our last
conversation. Uh, I was wondering if
there was anything on your mind from our
last talk.
>> No, I think you guys we talked about
things I don't I don't normally talk
about. So, I felt like, you know, I was
kind of reflecting on people. There used
to be this sort of feeling of you're not
supposed to act ask.
Well, let me try and think of how I want
to say this. Well, I feel like there was
a lot of preciousness around
asking people about
motherhood.
>> Oh, and I've been really reflecting on
how important it is for
um
young women to hear women talk about the
balance of motherhood and work. It used
to be like, "Oh, it was offensive to ask
people about motherhood." But I think
it's so important. Like, it never
offended me. People asked me how I
juggled things or I would ask other
women the same things. Um,
>> I don't, you know, it's interesting.
I've sort of been thinking about what it
is to be a mom in different eras because
there's a pretty big age gap between
your oldest two kids and your youngest
who's still home with you. Are you
different as a parent this time around?
>> Oh, for sure. I'm exhausted. I'm
completely rung out and tired. And
whenever I lose Michael, I turn to my
youngest and I go, "You got to call your
brother and sister. They wore me out.
I'm so tired. Like, eat the cookie. Go
to bed late. Just do it." You know, but
like think about how it's going to make
you feel. And then like beyond that, I'm
so tired. I've been I've been parenting
for 25 years. Mhm.
>> And I also know I also feel very
comfortable that
I know the little things that aren't as
important. Like I had a friend say, "I'm
not there for pickup." And is that okay?
Absolutely. You know, you you can't be
at every soccer game, you know, every
morning meeting, pick up, drop off, make
the lunch, do the volunteer stuff. It's
it's a lot of pressure on women to send
the kids to school, have them fully
prepared, but also do all the
volunteering at the school around the
school. That's like unpaid labor, you
know, and I am so grateful for the women
who show up and do it and include me in
it, you know, when I choose to show up.
But that's a whole other set of
pressures on women constantly,
you know, to show up and be the perfect
mom. As we talked about your sort of uh
parenting of your youngest, I'm also
wondering how you look at your oldest
and what that looks like in terms of
giving her guidance as she kind of makes
her own way in the world. Um from your
own perspective as someone who also has,
you know, uh had to navigate Hollywood
at a young age. Um you know, what kind
of advice do you give her? Well, it's
interesting because last year she turned
and when I was 25, she was a year and a
half old and I just done legally blonde.
Oh, wow. And I was about to start Sweeto
Alabama. We we just are living very
different um
different life existences, realities.
And I'm so proud of her for not being
anything but herself, not trying to
emulate me or be me. You know what I'm
saying? Not trying to approximate my
career or AA's just cool. She's just
always been cool. You know, some people
are just born cool. She was just born
cool. But part of the challenge being a
mother of a 20 26-y old woman is
learning to back away. Learning she
doesn't need me in the same ways and
that's okay. And soothing my
my heart when I feel like
rejected a little bit. But it's not a
rejection. It's actually her. People in
my my life remind me the alternate the
alternative would be worse if she was
just so needy needy needy. She's not
needy like that. I'm just really proud
of who she's become as an individual.
You know I I have an only child. She's
12. I can't imagine the moment when
she's going to leave and you know that's
going to be the end of that. And been
watching a lot of sort of people get
sending their kids off to college and
sending their kids off into the world
and you're talking about it feeling
lonely and rejected. I'm just wondering
how you, you know, have processed that
and how you deal with
letting your children go, especially
children, I have to say, Reese, who you
know are going to get a lot of scrutiny
because they're the child of Reese
Witherspoon.
Well, that, you know, we talk about a
lot, but that's again something I can't
understand because I wasn't the child of
famous parents. So I help I encourage
them to reach out to people who are in
similar situations and um they certainly
have friends there and you know the
whole thing about
how do people treat them as they pursue
acting or music or entertainment. I mean
it's pretty natural that the child of
two actors would want to try acting. So
I mean there's this whole discussion
right about nepo babies etc etc.
>> Yeah. just blows my mind. Like, is Laura
Durn a Nepo baby? Like, really? She's an
Oscar winning, incredible part of the
fabric of film making for 40 years, and
so are her parents. And it's like,
should we not have her be an actress?
And I think it's also what you do with
those opportunities, you know? And um I
don't know, I think my my kids have a
really good clear headsp space about
that. But back to the point of empty
nesting in a certain way cuz I have two
kids who've um left home. It's really
sad.
It's it's really hard to deal with. I
grieved their going to college and I
cried in their rooms and oh my gosh, one
year one of them didn't come home for
Christmas and I sat in their bed and
just cried. Um it's a loss cuz you do
everything for them. You take the food
out of your mouth, the coat off your
back. You don't sleep. You just don't
Let's just You don't sleep cuz you're so
either taking care of their physical
needs when they're little or when
they're older, you're just so worried
all the time that they're going to get
in a car accident or they're going to
come home or there's going to be drugs
involved. You just I have everywhere the
parents have, you know, and then one day
it's kind of like if you've done your
job, you did the right things, they go
and it's like makes me tearary right
now. It's just really hard, but you
know, you did the right things.
So, um,
and then they become these incredible
friends. Like Ael will call me and just
be like a great friend. Deacon calls me
all the time. we hang out in New York
and he'll tell me about cool restaurants
and I'll be like, "Great. Can you get a
reservation?" Cuz he has he can get
better reservations than I can. Now,
um, but it's awesome to have your kids
become adults.
>> We only have a few minutes left. Um,
where do you see your career going in
terms of your acting? I mean, is TV more
interesting to you now than movies?
>> No, I kind of I go back and forth. I
love movies. It's, you know, how I
started. And I love I love that
television has become this premium
storytelling
um,
you know, enterprise. I think a lot of
building my company was around
television and the the world of
television producing was just so open.
It was like the wild wild west and we
could do whatever we wanted to. I have
to be so passionate at this point to be
acting. I I I have to love it. Just love
it. Love it. Love it. Because I really
like my life.
>> You know, my real life is really good.
So,
I have to really feel like the story has
to be told. And I do feel like that
about some of our projects. But it's
it's definitely a different feeling
about acting. I've also been doing it
since I was 14. So, I've done a lot. I
said a lot. I've played a lot of parts.
I know what I have played, what I
haven't played. I'm not interested in
repeating myself.
>> What do you think people don't
understand about you?
>> So much.
>> There's so much people don't know.
I just I don't talk a lot about things
I've been through.
I will one day. I'm just not ready yet.
>> Is there a Reese memoir, The Book of
Ree, coming out?
>> No. No.
Maybe I'll never write the book. My kids
know. They'll they know a lot of the
things
that
happen behind the scenes that, you know,
some of my really good friends know. But
I don't linger on things either. I feel
like every day is a new opportunity to
do something
meaningful. I have a tendency. I don't
hold grudges. I don't dwell. And I think
it's what serves me and it's what pushes
me forward that I'm constantly looking
to create and not dwell in the old or
remember what I was or remember all the
wrongs that happened to me. But I do
think they would be very very
entertaining.
I think to say the least. I'd read the
hell out of that book.
Oh boy. Reese Witherspoon, thank you so
much. I appreciate your time.
>> Thank you, Lulu. This was nice.
[Music]
>> I'm Lulu Garcia Navaro.
>> And I'm David Marchesy,
>> and we're the hosts of the Interview, an
audio and video podcast from the New
York Times.
>> Every week, we interview fascinating and
influential people from all walks of
life.
>> Subscribe to our YouTube channel so
you'll never miss an episode.